An extraordinarily open and unique picture of Karel Gott in Olga Špátová's documentary feature film
This unique film created by Olga Špátová will premier in Czech cinemas next spring.
"In mid-September last year, I received a phone call from Ivanka and Karel Gott who asked me whether, after ten years, I would consider making another documentary about Karel's life. I didn't hesitate for a minute! I felt, and still feel, very honoured to work with a person who's managed to bask in the glory of the Czech cultural scene for over half a century, thanks to his exceptional singing talent, artistic modesty and immense diligence. I accepted the challenge to make a documentary feature about Karel Gott as a way to give back to this legendary singer, who has been bringing joy with his art to no less than three generations of listeners," film director Olga Špátová describes her feelings.
Thanks to our timely agreement and organization, the first day of shooting was as early as 22nd October last year, and the last scenes with Karel Gott were shot a few days ago. The aim has always been completely clear – to authentically capture Karel Gott, a phenomenal singer who is giving himself to his fans, a painter and, at the same time, a loving husband and father. A man who has been giving away joy with his songs to several generations for sixty years, not just in this country, but also in Europe, or rather across the entire world. A man who has found a way into the hearts and souls of his fans by simply being.
The film is not supposed to be a showcase of Karel Gott's undeniable fame and success. "This is the reason why we can't be comparing this film to my previous film, The Gott Phenomenon. They are both different. If nothing else, it's different in capturing another stage of Karel Gott's life, which will be very apparent in his personal, if not intimate, confession he gave us. This made us realize just what a legend we have had the privilege to work and spend time with, which really is quite indescribable," adds Olga Špátová.
The film-makers were filming Karel Gott during his shows, and while he was talking his fans here and in Hamburg. Most of the filming was done his home environment, whether it was Prague or his cottage in Bohemian Switzerland, in the village where he spent his childhood and other places that played an important role in his life. The film will thus be completely authentic and unique, thanks to Karel Gott's honesty and openness.
"Olga has a great gift to work with her small team in a way which often allowed us to get carried away in the relaxed atmosphere, so we naturally let her into our private lives. This helped me start talking about topics which are relatively intimate. She and her husband, cameraman Jan Malíř, have become part of our family, in a way. Originally, we wanted to release the film in 2019, to mark my milestone birthday. But because I was having a lovely time with my family in the summer, I wanted to start shooting as late as possible. And as there was too much of me everywhere in 2019, I wanted the film to go to cinemas next spring. This documentary is a way of saying thank you to all my fans and those who have supported and accompanied me throughout my career," says about the film Karel Gott himself.
Up to sixty times less insects now than 40 years ago
No other class of animals is more abundant in nature than insects. Beetles, butterflies and other insect species make up more than half of life on Earth. However, a growing number of reports claim that the insect kingdom is radically decreasing in size. A new scientific study on this topic was published earlier this week, suggesting that the situation is much more serious than people realized.
The study was based on a field research conducted in a rainforest in Puerto Rico, wherein US researchers recreated a research similar to one done in 1976. It is outlined right at the beginning of the report that there is "ten to sixty times less" insects in the rainforest today. The decline is apparent in the whole population, not in the number of species. The research did not focus just on insects but included all arthropods, as well. Decreasing numbers of insects cause a decline in the population of other fauna too, such as birds, frogs and lizards, due to their dependency on insects as part of the food chain.
The authors of the research attribute their findings directly to climate change. They say that the average air temperature in the rainforest has increased by two degrees Celsius in the past thirty years, and it is the warmer temperatures that have become the driving force behind the food web collapse. According to the team of researchers, the study shows that the impact of climate change on the tropical ecosystems can be much more profound than previously thought.
An extensive article about this report was published in the Washington Post on Monday. The new findings are presented right in the title of the article as hyper-alarming. "This is one of the most disturbing articles I have ever read," entomologist David Wagner of the University of Connecticut told the newspaper, which quotes him as an independent expert.
Insect extinction is also happening in Europe. "The decline here is also proportionate," points out Lukáš Čížek of the Institute of Entomology at the Academy of Sciences. He says that besides the climate change, we should also take the changes in landscape into account, which play a significant role in Europe. "It has been going on here for much longer than in Puerto Rico," adds Čížek explaining why the researchers could have found such a sharp decline in the rainforests compared to the 1970s.
Ondřej Houska's Czechs in Europe: Should Czechoslovakia have refused the Munich Agreement of 1938 and gone to war with Germany? Three times NO
An undated picture of Adolf Hitler visiting a Czechoslovak frontier fortification. The purpose of the fortification was never to stop the German Army, but slow it down before the Allies got involved.
If Czechoslovakia had refused the Munich Agreement almost exactly 81 years ago and was consequently faced with an attack from the Germans, what would have removed the majority of Czechoslovak soldiers from the battlefield? German tanks, their Air Force or perhaps the artillery? Quite possibly none of those weapons, despite the Germans having an overwhelming superiority in all of the above over the Czechoslovaks. The Czechoslovak Army would probably have suffered their heaviest losses – because of blisters.
Police Union Chairman Štěpánek has resigned, he wants to live as a free person
Milan Štěpánek, the Chairman of the Independent Police Union, decided to leave his post, reported the Czech Radio's Radiožurnál on Friday. Štěpánek, who has been chairing the union since 2005, will remain in the post for further two months. After he has left the front office, he will continue to serve in the police force.
"I can confirm that I handed in my written notice of resignation to the board earlier this week, and will remain in the post with all engagements for further two months," Štěpánek told the Radiožurnál. "I made this decision freely as someone who doesn't want to be tied to the union forever and who wants to live a more peaceful life," he said naming the reasons for his resignation.
The Independent Union of the Czech Republic's Police Force represents members and employees of security forces and the Ministry of the Interior. Among other things, the Union joined in protests against budget cuts and in petitions calling for better conditions in security forces. In 2011, the Union got into a dispute with the then Interior Minister, Radek John, and set up a petition calling for him to step down. The leaders of the government coalition later agreed that John would step down from his ministerial post.
